Inheritance- one of the concepts of OOP.       Can super class have more than one subclass?

This concept is used for building relationship between classes.

Relationships are called super and sub relationships .

In java we have a special keyword called extends, we use it to build super and sub relat. between classes.

If I have a class
public class A, if I want to build relationship between A class and another B class,
what I can do is- use the extends key word. public class A extends B. the one that's
extending called sub class, the one that being extended is super class .


SUB class (A) is called child class, it can inherit the visible and protected features from the super class.
Subclass extends to Super class.

              features that have public or protected access modifiers can be inherited anywhere, even outside
              the package.

              features that have default access modifier: can only be inherited to classes that are
              in the same package with

              features that have private access modifier: can never be inherited .



SUPER class (B) :is called parent class, super class cannot inherit any feature from the sub class.
Class, that being extended. Super class cant take anything from sub class.


One class can only extend one class, but one class can be extended by multiple classes.

One super class can have multiple subclasses.



Protected access modifier only visible to the classes that are in the same package,
but it can be inheritable to the classes outside the package. not visible, but inheritable,
only one difference between protected and default.

Single Inheritance : In single inheritance, subclasses inherit the features of one superclass.
Multilevel Inheritance :
Hierarchical Inheritance :


As we know, a child inherits the properties from his parents.
A similar concept is followed in Java, where we have two classes:

1. Parent class ( Super or Base class )

2. Child class ( Subclass or Derived class )

A class which inherits the properties is known as Child Class
  whereas a class whose properties are inherited is known as Parent class.


In single inheritance, one class inherits the properties of another.
It enables a derived class to inherit the properties and behavior
from a single parent class.


BENEFIT of Inheritance:
- re-usability - you developed the code once,and then you can use it everywhere
-  it is very easy to maintain . for ex:
   in your framework if some data has a problem , we can go to one class to fix it.
   If you fixed it in one class, the thousands of classes gonna inherit it at the same time.

Lets assume we have thousands of test cases . we tested them on chrome.
And chrome driver got updated, then all test cases got failed. And you need to test test cases
on the firefox  driver. In that case all we have to do is to go to parent class and fix
the driver to firefox . At one place. If we don't have Inheritance, we need to update every single classes.

POM - page object module.











